CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Bematore Payment System

> Professional Payment Processing Platform  
> Developed by Brandon Ochieng | Mental Health Technology Solutions

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the Bematore Payment System! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## 🎯 Mission

Our mission is to provide secure, reliable, and compliant payment processing solutions for mental health technology applications, supporting healthcare professionals, hospitals, first responders, and corporate wellness programs.

## 🤝 How to Contribute

### Types of Contributions

1. **Security Enhancements** - Improvements to security features and compliance
2. **Payment Gateway Integrations** - New payment method integrations
3. **Documentation** - Technical documentation, API guides, tutorials
4. **Bug Fixes** - Resolving issues and improving reliability
5. **Performance Optimizations** - Enhancing system performance and scalability

### Before You Start

1. **Check Existing Issues** - Review open issues to avoid duplication
2. **Security First** - All contributions must maintain HIPAA and PCI compliance
3. **Enterprise Standards** - Code must meet enterprise-grade quality standards
4. **Testing Required** - All changes must include comprehensive tests

## 🚀 Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Django 4.2+
- MySQL 8.0+
- Git
- Firebase Admin SDK

### Local Development
```bash
# Fork and clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/bematore-payment-system.git
cd bematore-payment-system

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run migrations
python manage.py migrate

# Start development server
python manage.py runserver
```

## 📋 Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- Follow PEP 8 Python style guidelines
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Include comprehensive docstrings
- Maintain consistent formatting

### Security Requirements
- Never commit sensitive data (API keys, passwords, tokens)
- Implement proper input validation
- Use parameterized queries to prevent SQL injection
- Follow OWASP security guidelines

### Testing Standards
```bash
# Run all tests
python manage.py test

# Run with coverage
coverage run --source='.' manage.py test
coverage report --show-missing

# Minimum 90% code coverage required
```

### Documentation
- Update API documentation for any endpoint changes
- Include inline code comments for complex logic
- Update README.md if adding new features
- Provide examples for new functionality

## 🔄 Pull Request Process

### 1. Create a Feature Branch
```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
# or
git checkout -b bugfix/issue-number
```

### 2. Make Your Changes
- Write clean, documented code
- Add comprehensive tests
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass

### 3. Commit Guidelines
```bash
# Use conventional commit format
git commit -m "feat: add new payment gateway integration"
git commit -m "fix: resolve callback timeout issue"
git commit -m "docs: update API documentation"
git commit -m "test: add integration tests for M-Pesa"
```

### 4. Submit Pull Request
- Provide clear description of changes
- Reference related issues
- Include screenshots for UI changes
- Ensure all checks pass

## 🧪 Testing Guidelines

### Test Categories
1. **Unit Tests** - Individual component testing
2. **Integration Tests** - Payment gateway integrations
3. **Security Tests** - Vulnerability and compliance testing
4. **Performance Tests** - Load and stress testing

### Writing Tests
```python
from django.test import TestCase
from payments.models import PaymentTransaction

class PaymentTransactionTest(TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        """Set up test data"""
        self.transaction_data = {
            'amount': 100.00,
            'currency': 'USD',
            'payment_method': 'mpesa'
        }
    
    def test_transaction_creation(self):
        """Test payment transaction creation"""
        transaction = PaymentTransaction.objects.create(
            **self.transaction_data
        )
        self.assertEqual(transaction.amount, 100.00)
        self.assertEqual(transaction.status, 'pending')
```

## 🛡️ Security Guidelines

### Sensitive Data Handling
- Use environment variables for all credentials
- Implement proper encryption for stored data
- Follow data minimization principles
- Regular security audits required

### Payment Security
- Validate all payment amounts and currencies
- Implement proper callback verification
- Use secure random number generation
- Log all security events

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/)
- [Firebase Admin SDK](https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin)
- [M-Pesa API Documentation](https://developer.safaricom.co.ke/)
- [Flutterwave API Documentation](https://developer.flutterwave.com/)

### Standards and Compliance
- [PCI DSS Requirements](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/)
- [HIPAA Compliance Guide](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/)
- [OWASP Security Guidelines](https://owasp.org/)

## 🏆 Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- CONTRIBUTORS.md file
- Release notes
- Project documentation

## 📞 Getting Help

### Support Channels
- **GitHub Issues** - For bug reports and feature requests
- **Email** - brandoncohieng72@gmail.com for direct support
- **GitHub** - [OchiengBrandon](https://github.com/OchiengBrandon)
- **Documentation** - Comprehensive guides in /docs

### Code Review Process
1. All code reviewed by maintainers
2. Security review for sensitive changes
3. Performance review for critical paths
4. Documentation review for public APIs

## 📄 License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same proprietary license as the project.

---

**Thank you for contributing to mental health technology solutions!** 💙

---

*Professional Payment Processing Platform*  
*Developed by Brandon Ochieng | Bematore Technologies*

Commit message:

fix: update company branding to Bematore Technologies
- Replace 'Mental Health Technology Solutions' with 'Bematore Technologies'
- Standardize company branding across all documentation
- Update version info and contribution guidelines
- Maintain consistency in professional branding

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Bematore Payment System

> Professional Payment Processing Platform  
# Bematore Payment System - Contributing Guidelines

> Developed by Brandon Ochieng | Bematore Technologies

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the Bematore Payment System! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## 🎯 Mission

Our mission is to provide secure, reliable, and compliant payment processing solutions for mental health technology applications, supporting healthcare professionals, hospitals, first responders, and corporate wellness programs.

## 🤝 How to Contribute

### Types of Contributions

1. **Security Enhancements** - Improvements to security features and compliance
2. **Payment Gateway Integrations** - New payment method integrations
3. **Documentation** - Technical documentation, API guides, tutorials
4. **Bug Fixes** - Resolving issues and improving reliability
5. **Performance Optimizations** - Enhancing system performance and scalability

### Before You Start

1. **Check Existing Issues** - Review open issues to avoid duplication
2. **Security First** - All contributions must maintain HIPAA and PCI compliance
3. **Enterprise Standards** - Code must meet enterprise-grade quality standards
4. **Testing Required** - All changes must include comprehensive tests

## 🚀 Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Django 4.2+
- MySQL 8.0+
- Git
- Firebase Admin SDK

### Local Development
```bash
# Fork and clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/bematore-payment-system.git
cd bematore-payment-system

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run migrations
python manage.py migrate

# Start development server
python manage.py runserver
```

## 📋 Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- Follow PEP 8 Python style guidelines
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Include comprehensive docstrings
- Maintain consistent formatting

### Security Requirements
- Never commit sensitive data (API keys, passwords, tokens)
- Implement proper input validation
- Use parameterized queries to prevent SQL injection
- Follow OWASP security guidelines

### Testing Standards
```bash
# Run all tests
python manage.py test

# Run with coverage
coverage run --source='.' manage.py test
coverage report --show-missing

# Minimum 90% code coverage required
```

### Documentation
- Update API documentation for any endpoint changes
- Include inline code comments for complex logic
- Update README.md if adding new features
- Provide examples for new functionality

## 🔄 Pull Request Process

### 1. Create a Feature Branch
```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
# or
git checkout -b bugfix/issue-number
```

### 2. Make Your Changes
- Write clean, documented code
- Add comprehensive tests
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass

### 3. Commit Guidelines
```bash
# Use conventional commit format
git commit -m "feat: add new payment gateway integration"
git commit -m "fix: resolve callback timeout issue"
git commit -m "docs: update API documentation"
git commit -m "test: add integration tests for M-Pesa"
```

### 4. Submit Pull Request
- Provide clear description of changes
- Reference related issues
- Include screenshots for UI changes
- Ensure all checks pass

## 🧪 Testing Guidelines

### Test Categories
1. **Unit Tests** - Individual component testing
2. **Integration Tests** - Payment gateway integrations
3. **Security Tests** - Vulnerability and compliance testing
4. **Performance Tests** - Load and stress testing

### Writing Tests
```python
from django.test import TestCase
from payments.models import PaymentTransaction

class PaymentTransactionTest(TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        """Set up test data"""
        self.transaction_data = {
            'amount': 100.00,
            'currency': 'USD',
            'payment_method': 'mpesa'
        }
    
    def test_transaction_creation(self):
        """Test payment transaction creation"""
        transaction = PaymentTransaction.objects.create(
            **self.transaction_data
        )
        self.assertEqual(transaction.amount, 100.00)
        self.assertEqual(transaction.status, 'pending')
```

## 🛡️ Security Guidelines

### Sensitive Data Handling
- Use environment variables for all credentials
- Implement proper encryption for stored data
- Follow data minimization principles
- Regular security audits required

### Payment Security
- Validate all payment amounts and currencies
- Implement proper callback verification
- Use secure random number generation
- Log all security events

## 📚 Resources

### Documentation
- [Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/)
- [Firebase Admin SDK](https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin)
- [M-Pesa API Documentation](https://developer.safaricom.co.ke/)
- [Flutterwave API Documentation](https://developer.flutterwave.com/)

### Standards and Compliance
- [PCI DSS Requirements](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/)
- [HIPAA Compliance Guide](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/)
- [OWASP Security Guidelines](https://owasp.org/)

## 🏆 Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:
- CONTRIBUTORS.md file
- Release notes
- Project documentation

## 📞 Getting Help

### Support Channels
- **GitHub Issues** - For bug reports and feature requests
- **Email** - brandoncohieng72@gmail.com for direct support
- **GitHub** - [OchiengBrandon](https://github.com/OchiengBrandon)
- **Documentation** - Comprehensive guides in /docs

### Code Review Process
1. All code reviewed by maintainers
2. Security review for sensitive changes
3. Performance review for critical paths
4. Documentation review for public APIs

## 📄 License

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same proprietary license as the project.

---

**Thank you for contributing to Bematore Technologies!** 💙

---

*Professional Payment Processing Platform*  
*Developed by Brandon Ochieng | Bematore Technologies*
